
>[!caution] About :
>- the first step of the penetration testing.
>- عبارة عن استطلاع
>- there are passive and active.

---
---
>[!bug] where to use :
>- the following will be used in the url after the domain with `/`.


>[!todo]- robots.txt :
>- it is a file that you put in your server to tell the search engine what the sub-domains it can access and what it can't
>- you can access that file from browser by entering `example.com/robots.txt` in the url.
>	- now you will know what the sub-domain the server need to not be accessed and its names.

>[!caution]- sitemap_index.xml :
>- a file inside the online server that contain all the sub-domains used in this site.
>- very important to know the structure of the site without entering or search for each individual.
>- yoast tool can make that file automatically.

---
---
>[!danger] Extensions in the browser :
>- a services that work in the browser and aid you in the info gathering.

>[!caution]- Wappalyzer :
>- a powerful tool that give you information about websites structure(programming language and services) with its versions.
>- download as extension. 
>- very useful to determine your methodology.

---
---
>[!bug] some tools inside linux :
>- a linux tools that aid you in the info gathering.

>[!caution]- httrack website copier :
>- for take a copy of any website to test it offline !!
>- `sudo apt install webhttrack`, it is in my OS but CLI.
>-  try to download the GUI version .......
>---
>- it is a tool that combine all the previous in one tool.
>---
>- careful cause you may be banned due to the high request rate, so you will need to modify some request settings and make a time for each request.

---
---

## Conclusion :

### Reconnaissance 
- it is about collecting the data about the target to specify the way of attack to perform

---

### The tools used category :

- in the browser as extension :
	- wappalyzer

- in linux :
	- httrack website copier

- manually :
	- `robots.txt`
		- tell you about the hidden domains.

	- `sitemap_index.xml`
		- tell you about all the available sub domain as links, save your time.








