
## Intro:

>[!success]- Key terms:
>- plain text:
>	- the data which we want to secure it to send it to another person
>- cipher:
>	- the encryption algorithm which may be with the same key for encrypt and decrypt or different keys.
>- cryptoanalysis:
>	- a bad activity by attacker to try to know the keys by analysis the cipher text.

>[!caution]- Cryptography:
>- is a way for secure messages by converting it from an recognition form to another form which no one can understand it except specific peoples.
>
>> [!Example]
>> - symmetric model
>>	- the sender and receiver have the same key for encryption and decryption.
>>	- the key should be private and no one know about it except its nodes.
>> - asymmetric model
>>	- the sender has a key for encryption and the receiver has a different key for decryption.
>>	- away secure, and the receiver will generate both the encryption and decryption keys and let the encryption key public.

>[!tip]- Encryption Schemes:
>
>>[!caution] Unconditionally secure:
>>- the cipher text generated by the encryption key isn't have enough information about the encryption and you can't decrypt it without having the decryption key.
>>- like otp -> one time password
>>- امان غير حسابي لا يمكن حساب طريقة تشفيرة لفكه
>
>>[!caution] Computationally Secure:
>>- when the cost of decrypting the cipher exceed the exceed the value of information and the time required for breaking it exceeded the useful lifetime of the informations.

## Finding the key by:

>[!success]- CryptoAnalysis:
>- it is about how the attacker will find the key based on the available information.
>- it has some knowledge about the encryption algorithm or the plain text.
>- depend on the key space ?? small or large.
>
>>[!example]- Types of Attacks:
>>- cipher text only:
>>	- know the ciphertext only
>>
>>- known plaintext:
>>	- ciphertext along with some info about plaintext. 
>>
>>- chosen plaintext:
>>	- ciphertext with the encryption algorithm.
>>
>>- chosen ciphertext:
>>	- ciphertext along with the decryption algorithm.
>>
>>- chosen text:
>>	- have the plaintext with the ciphertext and try to predict the keys.

>[!success]- Brute-Force attack:
>- trying all possible values in order to find the key.
>- Guessing.
>- Exhaustive key search.
>---
>- you can prevent this type by using Captcha to ensure that there are no machine doing the brute force.
>	- text based
>	- recaptcha
>	- mathematical
>	- image based
>	- 3d, and more ...
>
>>[!example]- tools for making the brute-force:
>>- aircrack-ng
>>- creack
>>- hydra
>>- john the ripper
>>- hashcat
>---
>>[!caution]- Important Notations:
>>- careful when you try it to not harm anyone without purpose, the brute force file may contain something like drop or delete a table in the database or the whole database.
 
## Classical Encryption Techniques:

>[!caution]- Substitution Technique :
>- replace the letters with other letters or symbols.
>- shifting the languages characters by a specific shift is also type of it.
>- simple and may be easily broken.
>- known by both sender and receiver.

>[!caution]- Transposition Technique:
>- applying some sort or permutation to the letters of the word but it still have the same characters.
>- it is like shift or reverse or make a specific permutation as preferred on the word without changing its characters.

>[!caution]- The greatest common divisor (GCD):
>- you make modulus to the numbers then the small number with the result of the pervious operation until the % = 0, so the result will be the small number of the previous operation.

>[!caution]- Chinese remainder theorem (CRT):
>- **y1 * m1 ~= 1 % n1**.
>- you are trying to find the smallest value of y1 to make the previous theory.
>---
>- first you will make the reminder of m1 -> m1 % n1 then the result (Rs) will have the operation (Rs * Y1) % n1 = 1 which y1 is the smallest value achieve the equation.
>- the value 1 may be change.

==========================================

## Part 2:

### Encoding:
- converting the data to an ascii code to transmit it over a network, not meant to secure the data.

>[!caution]- Base64:
> - Uses a 64-character set consisting of A-Z, a-z, 0-9, and two additional characters (usually + and /).
> - Each character represents 6 bits of data.
> - Commonly used in email attachments, MIME types, and encoding binary data in URLs.

>[!caution]- Base32:
>- Uses a 32-character set consisting of A-Z and 2-7 (or sometimes 0-9 and A-V).
> - Each character represents 5 bits of data.
> - Offers less space efficiency compared to Base64 but is more URL-friendly as it doesn't contain characters like '+' or '/'.
> - Padding characters (=) are also added at the end to ensure the length is a multiple of 8.

### Intro to encryption and hashing:
- {symmetric & asymmetric} encryption and hashing.
- simple substitution ciphers - affine cipher - hill cipher.
- RSA public key cryptosystem & hybrid encryption

>[!caution]- Symmetric Encryption:
>- one key used to both encrypt and decrypt the message.
>- the encryption maybe E: KxM -> C
>- the decryption D: KxC->M
>- C -> cipher text, D -> decryption algorithm, K -?> the key, M the data !
>>[!example] Types:
>>- AES
>>- DES
>>- RC5,RC6
>>- classical ciphers

>[!caution]- Asymmetric Encryption:
>- the receiver generate both keys for encryption and decryption and make the encryption key public.
>- E: K-pub x M -> C => for encryption
>- D: K-pri x C -> M => decryption.
>
>>[!example] Types:
>>- RSA -> rivest shamir adleman
>>- ECC -> elliptical curve cryptography.
>>- diffie-hellman exhange method.
>>- El gamal cryptosystem

>[!caution]- Hashing:
>- one key for Hashing only without dehashing.
>- used for passwords by **comparison** the entered password after hashing with the existing one in the database which is also hashed.
>
>>[!danger]- Types:
>>
>>>[!tip]- secure hashing algorithm(SHA):
>>>- SHA-1 -> not used because you may find 2 different words having the same hashing.
>>>- SHA-2 ->
>>>- SHA-3 ->
>>>---
>>>- SHA-256 ->  the most commonly used algorithm.
>>---
>>>[!tip]- Message Digest(MD):
>>>- was used but due to collisions(more than plain text having the same cipher text), now it is considered broken.
































