
>[!bug] Online services :
>- have assistant from online website in info gathering.

>[!caution]- `whois [dns]` :
>- is an online website that provide a lot of information about domain server.
>- it has a linux version, i have that version.....
>---
>- just open the website then enter the domain address `www.example.com`
>---
>- when you reserve a domain, it may has a security option to not view information about your server...
>- when someone try to do `whois` for you , it will not show any information...

>[!todo]- netcraft.com :
>- a website that tell you all security information about website.
>	- the ip, dns name, visiting numbers, secure protocols used and more.
>- i has it as extension in the web browser., i download it .......
>---
>- `virustotal.com` :
>	- it is a website inside netcraft that allow you to check ip addresses if secure or not and what are attacks that attack it.
>---
>- you can use netcraft as a first step for enum and info gathering.

---

>[!Example]- Some important info about the domain and servers ...
>- you may subscribe in a proxy server like `cloudflare.com` to secure you from DOS, DDOS attacks, and restrict some countries from visiting your website and limit the number of visitors.
>---
>- it is like a firewall to check the incoming requests and filter it.
>- it has a lot of plans.
>---
>- when you find the cloudflare, it may be difficult to penetrate that server..

---
---

>[!failure]- `WAFW00F [domain name]` :
>- firewall detection.
>- web application firewall.
>---
>- as a penetration testing, you will first try to know if there are A WAF or not perfore scanning.
>---
>- `wafw00f [DNS]` :
> 	 - it send requests to try to detect if WAF is exist or not...

---
---

>[!bug]- `sublist3r -d [sub-domain]`
>- a linux tool that search for the sub-domain in all search engines
>---
>- `sublist3r -d [dns] -e [search engine]`
>	- an example of usage the sublister tool.
>---
>- `-d`
>	- for the domain.
>- `-p`
>	- for the ports
>- `-e`
>	- for specifying the search engine used in search.



 